see
why war
comes about as it does what is the
social
function of war
and one of the
main points the main connections that
i've been able to to detect in the the
works of the
the two
is uh feroci
is uh
really pursues the connection between
production
and warfare
and he at one point this is in war at a
distance
talks about
uh atomic energy as sort of the logical
conclusion of violence of
of of um technology
and he talks about atomic energy being
maximum energy with maximum effect
and that
i think ties into what graber has said
about war being a simplification which
is a theme that farrow key
addresses as well
for feroci war is a machine
that does simplifications
it simplifies society it simplifies
results
graber has written about how war is
or violence more broadly that violence
is one of the most predictable social
phenomenon around that if you hit
something you know
what's going to happen
and
that violence is the absence of dialogue
it's the end of dialogue and so war in
many ways is the
the uh
the logical conclusion
of that
but i i think beyond that it
this connection between production
and warfare
is is an important one because elsewhere
in graber's work in debt in particular
he talks about the rise of money about
the the origins of money and what he
argues and and he was inspired by a
whole body of scholarly literature on
this
that money is the product of war and
that wars are there to make markets
and so the point of
going to war is
to create markets that then
a machine
for the production of
more
it could be money or more value more
tribute
um
so they're both
very interested in
what
how war connects
to production
and
what its what its uh effects are
i found that to be a real
um
important commonality
one other theme that i that i
saw
is
in ferocity's films he he seems to um
and i don't know his films well i've
only seen the war at a distance away and
then um
uh
i
don't remember the name of the other
three
um
that um
images of the war of the world
thank you
yeah one of the things that struck me is
that being a a filmmaker of course
frokey was interested in the spectacle
of of warfare and so the images that he
shows
are
frequently of the guided missiles from
the perspective of the missile but
there's so there's the missile and then
there's the target and then there's us
the viewer
and it really reminds me of of a very
important article
that david graber wrote for a general
audience called the the bully pulpit
and one of the points that he argues
is that part of the reason one of the
main reasons why violence continues to
exist
is because humans are not good
at dealing with violence and that
they are often turned into spectators
who don't who lack the tools to really
manage what they're they're watching and
so
his uh
his division of of power to the extent
that he relies on a on a
a a dynamic of power rather than being a
simple dialectic of perpetrator and
victim
it's a three-part system of perpetrator
victim and audience
and that the audience
that it it plays a very important role
because
and graber's not alone in suggesting
this that
there has always been violence there
could very well always be violence
the problem isn't necessarily the
violence itself it's when violence
becomes
spectated or viewed in a way where the
third party which would typically be the
majority of the world
isn't responding in effective ways and
so i you know i
i don't know how strong that connection
is
to the to the filmmaking aspects but
it's one of the things that immediately
came to my mind
is that the ferocious films have this
kind of third party us the viewer and i
don't honestly i don't know his films or
film theory at all well enough to really
comment on that but it is one of the
kind of connections
um
that i i thought was worth uh
considering
i'm not sure if others had um
connections that they'd like to uh to
start with
but i'm i'm happy to
yield the uh
the talking piece
if anyone would like
to comment
and if you
raise a hand
or put
i believe uh is
supposed to
um
wanted to
to have
but maybe maybe before i intervene there
are some questions to um
to the to the steve's introduction
i think there are there are many many
ideas in there and some of them echo
what i would like to say so i don't want
to intervene immediately
i would rather step
up a little bit later
i would
comment on the idea that humans are not
good
i was reading just
today
the chapter of the debt about
the age of
capitalism
of the an end of empires
and
it says that
luther
um
[Music]
was obliged to take sides about uh
usually and
loans by interest
because there was a a huge movement of
peasants
saying
it's against the
law of the
evangel and it's against the will of god
to have
rents and to have
loans at interest
and
he
uh said he justified
his worry
uh by saying
uh
okay uh the law
of the of jesus is one thing but it's uh
just for saints
and since we are all sinners we are all
able
we need
[Music]
we have a human law
that consists in
paying our debts and in having a
state a sovereign
to oblige
us to
fulfill the
to pay our debts and to fulfill our
promises to pay back our debts
and uh
so
it's interesting how
exactly at the beginning of capitalism
and
reform
this connection between
[Music]
the idea that humans are
bad
so they need
power and violence to take them at bay
is string
strictly connected with the destruction
of the human relationships in favor of
paying debts and
of finance
yeah uh graber um
has commented on how the the very
notion of civilization is
the our our understanding of
civilization is based on the premise
that in order to be civilized
we have to contain or restrain
the
the baser instincts in us
and that the premise is that there is no
society
without sin
because we as humans the argument goes
are prone to violence
and so when we come together as a
society or a polis a people
community
we have to
set aside our basic instincts or hand it
over to a sovereign so that that
sovereign can then regulate us
from ourselves and of course graber
argues that that's a false premise that
most of humanity didn't necessarily live
under that premise and that that in fact
is is more the result of
of um
changes having to do in western europe
in the starting in the in the uh in the
1500s
around luther and calvin
in particular and so the the idea is
that they're
the
the protestant idea the christian idea
is that there's a deep evil in us and
that we can't trust ourselves and so
by that logic humans are potentially
always at war or always at threat of war
and only
when there's some stronger power that
can control those impulses are we able
to live
peacefully and
that
is not a universe that's not a
historical universal that's something
that that is much more recent in in uh
in human history
at least uh judging by the uh
the evidence and so the ultimate
reasoning is
we can't be we can't have politics
we can't be a police
without there also being a police
that's the argument that we're told and
much of what the dawn of everything sets
out to do
is to disabuse us of that idea and to
show
that there have been vast periods of of
human history or prehistory where um
that was um where war was was not the
case and this connects back to nica's
opening quote about
about non-segmented societies being less
practice warfare less
and this seems to confirm the idea that
warfare is about production and creating
markets and less about satisfying
some
inner instinct that we universally
have and so the the if when one looks at
the history of the police
uh we find that
that the police were not
organized into a force into a social
force until there was first property and
so you can't have police without
property because
in the absence of property there isn't a
need for the police
um
yet
these ideas become
conventional wisdom
so much so that someone like bear told
brecht
will even say that war is
war always finds a way and there's a
part of me that that agrees entirely
with him
but
wants
remind myself that
that that always is more approach that
our notion of always is itself a product
of the kind of history we've lived under
for the last 500 or so years when we
come to
believe that only urbanized quote
civilized societies
um that that is the only way that we can
innovate and establish uh or secure
progress
and it seems to fly in the face of the
actual historical evidence
zenaida
yeah i have one question about the
concept of modernity it seems that uh
david didn't really use it and but for
him maybe capitalism uh plays a role uh
uh of something that some somebody else
would would call modernity so my
question is to what extent he did use it
and maybe
yeah so what was his relation to this
term
would someone else like to
provide some thoughts i i'm happy to but
i i don't want to be
the only one talking
maybe you're silly
um
sorry talk to my wife by capitalism and
modernity
i i'm
i i don't know um
and
no the question was not about the
relation between capitalism and
modernity but rather i
uh some somehow um i i don't see
the the use of the concept of modernity
in in in david's work maybe well which
i'm still a big beginner
but so i wonder uh
how do you understand his relation to
this concept
i think it was
probably um
yeah it would probably not use that well
i there is a very um i mean one of my
favorite essays that i wrote is um
this essay called there there has never
been a west
um
well it doesn't actually tackle
modernity we talked about the west and
said it doesn't really exist so i would
tell that yeah
i would imagine that he doesn't really
use the term
michael
i'm just
i mean maybe the way that most people
would think about modernity in
relationship to faruki's work would be
um in terms of uh
a concept of uh
bureaucratization
and particularly the in the films that
we watched it is the machines um
being
um
sort of
maximizing production in a sort of
rational way and then being turned back
towards violence so david has a huge
amount of stuff on bureaucracy and
violence right he doesn't do
a lot on technology so i mean what the
when when i just to connect to what
steve says in the intro about like this
kind of connection to production
um so baruchy's work in the film shows
here's how production creates these ways
of looking at production in a rational
way that then easily transfers into war
and violence
um
david graber looks at
sort of a performative theory of value
that violence is used to create the
structure of value so in a gift economy
people will
exchange things and there's a certain
amount of temporality because you give
something it's sort of like a deck but
it's also like means that you're going
to be around you'll give something back
and so it's not so much a debt so much
as a community
whereas between two villages
you might
go there
and you trade something you get
something you exchange it and
and then and whatever you get then
there's no temper or or i mean that's
probably not in in
in practice many villages have long-term
relationships and david's very clear
about that but i'm kind of um creating
an ideal type of village that just
you trade you you and that's it you give
me this your your pots for
my um stone these axes and that's it
i've got your stuff and then there's no
long-term relationship in this thing um
and then the other type of relationship
is someone rides in like the lord of the
manor and says to the serf um you give
me six bushels of wheat
right and that's a relationship um an
exchange and
the exchange is like basically
demonstrates the values um
whereas um is i'm the lord of the manor
i'm powerful and you're the surf
you're
not important you provide me this stuff
and it and so
that
is kind of put into people's heads oh
well they're the lord i have to give
them this tithe every year at my season
but the reason that that's there is that
you is that there's a necessary violence
to keep it in place and so violence
creates the structure of hierarchy and
an economy of exchange primarily on
um
exploitation so uh that and
um and so capitalism is a is a sort of
combination of violence
um and
a market economy that you know between
two two things so it's it pretends to be
this liberal idea i give you this and
you give me this we're an open free
market
everyone can do what they want and
there's no relationship you you give
that and you go
but in order to hold a class
relationships where some people put
their labor in sort of slavery has been
internalized and put inside of
capitalism so that relationship
of sort of feudalism or slavery is there
um so and that in some ways um while
normally i would think of graber as
thinking about the violence first to use
to create the economy um
i'm sure obviously once the economy is
there it presumes a continuing
violence whereas here um furuki's film
has looked at the visual and said the
the machinery and the visualization the
machinery easily transfers back into war
um and when the production process has
this crisis
a much more traditional marxist theory
where when the when there's a um an
overproduction crisis and the economy
isn't working some it's everybody gets
agitated somebody's got to solve it so
they go to war and that um and the
machinery of production is used
um in this visualization david graber
does um
have a lot of enthusiasm for technology
right but he always says like at the end
of
um
the the new book john of everything he
talks about
um technology you know uh if isn't we
have an entrepreneurialism of women and
there's much greater
creation and innovation under a free
society than a society where
uh there isn't this patriarchy in
violence that's associated with men
controlling women and hierarchical
systems where violence and war are used
um
uh so what people mostly think of
technology today is the kind of
electronics and
machines and those kind of things which
were really the innovation technologies
in some ways of of i would argue with
patriarchy they are social relations
that are designed to hold hierarchies in
place particularly weapon systems or the
imagination of a particular thing and so
so and so
um what we what david i think what david
graver thinks of the technology is much
is not what we think of technology um
and so uh it's much more the creativity
that comes out of communities so
some of the early technologies like uh
plants and agriculture and so you see
um a war technology doesn't really solve
people's need to eat it just destroys
things and so david doesn't really think
of it as as creative um in those ways
although he might think you know a
production system that was low energy
and visualize stuff and could distribute
stuff and help people that might in some
cases
be a good idea but it really depends on
whether the community got together and
made those decisions and that's not
often the way those technologies are
made here so um i would love to see more
in david gribber about looking at
uh how do the technologies that are
created
out of hierarchies and out of
bureaucracies that's really what david
graber talks about in terms of
technology he only talks about it as a
bureaucracy and technology is just an
extension of bureaucracy in some sense
with the technologies that
we have now that are kind of oh look
it's a technology nobody thinks of a a
pacifier really is a technology or um a
woven wheat bat a wheat basket you know
or those types of things which really
were
great innovations that helped but they
just didn't do the kind of things that
people
who play video games think technologies
are supposed to do
but i think they're very much talking
about the same thing
think about the the
david graves point about
the notion of interpretive labor
so it's basically you know in the
thought and effort of imagination you
know it's a you have to understand
um understanding someone means in fact
imagine yourself in someone's
place and
in the paper that you mentioned
um
graber basically argued that
hierarchical relationships
are distributed a very
um um
but this interpretive labor is basically
distributed and evenly
um you produce ignorance at the top
because when you have power and wealth
you don't have to understand anyone else
you can just
use your power
or use your wealth which is basically
the same thing and so you have
you you don't have
power knowledge you have power and
ignorance
and hierarchies can basically be defined
as you know high keys of knowledge and
ignorance at the same time
and this is i think this is exactly what
um
is saying you know um
the allies just didn't want to see it
they just didn't want to see the camps
um
and and this is like one of the reasons
faraki argues is that the machines just
like
uh
told the allies what they had to look at
and and you can actually follow david's
perspective uh if you look at you know
our
contemporary technologies we look at
algorithms which are which are a set of
rules just like bureaucracy
they are very practical objects because
they are
in on one hand extremely knowledgeable
and yet they are extremely ignorant
because
they basically amass
so much data that no human could
actually
ever possess a
you know let alone process
but it's hardly capable of performing
any interpretive labor
and
and i think to that sense uh there are
uh there is there is a striking
similarities between uh faraki's
work and uh and uh grave as well
uh
[Music]
i
started thinking
of a war
relationship
with what the david said
um with
a sentence by valtter benjamin in head
that is not even the dead will be
safe
if the enemy wins and
this enemy never stopped winning
um
i asked myself who is this enemy uh
and i think
this enemy is a
one that constitutes
itself
by the fact of being
of the
of the victory of being the winner
because
it constitutes
itself
by war
and
war
is not just
about
the opposition between enemies
friends and force
it's about the construction of a
fixed identity
as a
haruki said
the machine for simplification
war is what
uh constitutes an enemy
and obliges
us to be
on one side
either on one side or
on the other
so it ossifies the process of
schismogenesis
of the creation of new identities
and
um
and this is the mechanism of
power
and this is what uh
makes of the
subject of power our enemy
and i was also struck by a
sentence from
the politics of magic by david
where he says that there is a precise
relationship between magic theater and
political power
and rulers can't stand magic because i
quote
consider what one is saying when one one
says a magician is a fraud
one is saying that there are some people
who clearly and are powerful and
influential but whose power is really
based on nothing other than their
ability to convince others that they
have it
it this is the same with the ruler
a ruler exists
in as much
is a ruler in as much he is
able to convince others that he
uh
has power that he is the ruler and that
it exists some single uh such a thing as
a state
and everybody who belongs to this state
belongs
to
is represented by the ruler by the
sovereign
so
uh war
is not
as a in the quarter
uh in the passage quoted by nika is not
just organized by violence but a kind a
precise kind of contest between two
clearly demarcated sites
and
everything
is about this demarcation these
ossifying the
schismogenesis
and
it's about creating
uh
a space that is dominated
uh in the form of a household
of a roman law household
uh
where
you are
supposedly free in as much you belong to
this state and only the state as a
the right to exer
to
to be violent
to tap on your head or to kill you
inside the borders
the most important exercise exercise in
war is this make believe
that
makes so that we have an ins and out
and this
constitutes
the borders and fixes the borders
and ossifies them
and
humans are continuously
changing
we have many identities
and
many allegiances
and also
groups are continuously forming so
ismogenesis and creative refusal the
problem is when
it is made
when there is a when metamorphosis is
forbidden to use a
an alias kenneth
expression
and when
identities and changes are ossified
um
i have a final quote that i like very
much it's still from debt
if i can find it
uh just a sec
yes what makes the concept of society so
that deceptive is that we assume the
world is organized into a series of
compact modular units called societies
and that all people
know which one they are they are in
historically this is very rarely the
case
we identify the state with the uh with
the society and this is a fundamental
mistake
and we accept that our
especially in war we accept that our
only identity
is to
be belonging to this or that state
historically this is very rarely the
case imagine i am a christian romanian
merchant living under the ring of
janjiskan
what is society for me is it the city
where i grew up the society of
international merchants
with is its own liberal elaborate codes
of conduct within which i conduct my
daily affairs other speakers of armenian
christendom or maybe just orthodox
christendom or the inhabitants of the
mongol empire itself which stretched
from the mediterranean to korea
historically kingdoms and empires have
rarely been the most important reference
point in people's lives
kingdoms rise and fall they also
strengthen and weaken
governments may
make their presence
presence known in people's life
quite sporadically and many people in
history were never entirely clear what
government they were actually in
even until quite recently many of the
world's inhabitants were never even
quite sure what country they were
supposed to be in or why it should
matter
my mother who was
born a jew a jew in poland
once told me a joke from her childhood
there was a small town located
along the frontier between russia and
poland no one was ever quite sure to
which it belonged one day an official
treaty was signed and not long after
surveyors arrived to draw the border
some villagers approached them where
they say they had set up their equipment
and on an urban hill
so
where are we russia or poland
according to our calculations your
village now begins exactly 37 metres
into poland
the villagers immediately began dancing
of joy
why what difference does it make
don't you know what this means
it means we'll never have to endure
another one of those terrible russian
winters
yeah
thank you
um i i want to be mindful of time i see
that uh christopher's hand is up i want
to make sure that we're able to hear
from zunida uh christopher um
would you mind if we don't know please
go ahead let's go
thank you yeah go ahead tomato
okay uh could you maybe allow me to
share the screen because i prepared a
small presentation uh
with pictures from faroque's film
ok now
can you see it
yes we can yeah okay good
and let me just read it because it's
it's just easier to me
so
in my small presentation i would like to
put harun faraki's movie pictures of war
in dialogue with some of david's
grabber's consideration on depth
why debt
according to david the logic of debt is
the modern in the modern world justifies
relations founded in violence it makes
them seem moral it immediately makes it
seem that it's the victim who is doing
something wrong and oh
yet david demonstrates that depth is a
fiction produced by those imposing their
power
those who who are claimed to be adapted
have never been asked or have often
been never asked if they need this
credit
instead they are put in the position
where they have to sing for being
granted
knowledge civilization technology and
ultimately life
i quote
for thousands of years violent men have
been able to tell their victims that
those victims of them something if
nothing else they owe them their lives
because they have not been killed
pharaoh kiss
um
film is a beautiful and multi-layered
reflection on the complexity and tension
that exists between human curiosity
thirst for knowledge willingness to
create and improve and the mechanism of
governance that those created tools and
artifacts bring into the world
human curiosity and inventiveness go
hand in hand with the production of
tools of control and destruction methods
of calculation and measurement that
could serve to improve the safety of the
workers can equally serve the
development of tools of surveillance and
military weapons
faruqiya just opposes human
human hand drawing and mechanical
drawing
motion and exact photographic picture
allowing for further investigation
abstraction and symbolism and
photographic exactness
in this the dichotomy of inextitude of
human hand the blur of pictures taken
secretly the symbolism of crafts and the
motion of nature stand for humanity
vulnerable life and diversity
instead photographic and mathematical
precision the ability to exactly
identify locate and target stand for at
least potential danger and violence
the power to unveil women's faces come
together with technology which mediates
violence
the presence of an unfamiliar object the
photo camera normalizes behavior which
otherwise would be qualified as immoral
to open the face and presence of a
stranger is unthinkable in regular
everyday life but it becomes legitimate
and normal when mediated by the camera
which itself dictates a new behavior and
legitimizes violence
this resonates with david's observation
about money
money he writes
has a capacity to turn morality into a
matter of impersonal arithmetic
and by doing so to justify things that
would otherwise seem outrageous or
obscene
the photographed women
will receive their id cards
for the first time in their lives they
will be calculated and taken into
account by the state which authorized
the very procedure of photographing them
without their wealth
the state offers them identity and
rights
production and
destruction creation and violence are
often closely intertwined
who has the authority to decide what is
production and destruction what is to be
calculated taken into account and
recycled
state science and technology are among
those machines of governance that embody
this controlling gaze
the gaze which identify who is right and
who is wrong who owes and who gives the
credit
these institutions and machines identify
locate and target
the reflection about the controlling
gaze echoes david's reasoning about the
power of the creditor
the difference between a debt
and the mere moral obligation is not the
presence or absence of men with weapons
who can enforce that obligation by
seizing the doctor's possessions or
threatening to break his legs it is
simply that the creditor has the means
to specify numerically exactly how much
the adapter owes
modern machines of violence
be the bureaucratic procedures or
military operations
come together with the ability to locate
identify and eventually target or submit
to an action
as they would put it when human
relations are turned into mathematics
violence takes place
how absolute how absolute
is this machine of power
both faroque and grabber suggest to look
elsewhere
to find venues of resistance
david revised history and identified
spots of social experimentation
faroq in his film points for example at
the water and sensorial intelligence
uh
in the film he says the motions of water
are still less researched than those of
light as such they avoid the controlling
case
so i would close here so as you see it
was a kind of interpretation of farce
film
with some insights um yeah from david
work
and maybe it will also allow for some uh
for some
further speculations and ideas about
war think it's also maybe um interesting
to to talk a little bit about the
difference between
um
what is violence and what is the war i
think stephen stephen you you you were
talking about it so in a way as i
understand it so violence um is let's
say is embedded in our everyday life and
it's always there so it's
it's the exercise of power
and the war is uh let's say the the
the ultimate or the final the final
stage of of this interaction where
actually there is no interaction there
is only elimination of the partner
and the end of the conversation
is david road
thank you
thank you very much for that that was
really wonderful and uh an
eye-opening one thing that i drew from
this presentation
is that
warfare
when it's practiced it is both it
becomes the means and the end
as
as one and so the the the process is the
outcome and its absolute destruction of
of the the other uh
a lot of wonderful connections there uh
yeah i would love to uh
uh go back to christopher now if if uh
if you would like to uh uh
contribute
no sorry my small brain basically
evaporated but i i was um curious about
one one thing which is about war
the speed with which people get excited
by it
i mean we're we're seeing that even
right now
um
and it it's such a
people go from almost
almost apathy or you know let's just say
an unostified schismogenesis
milieu in process to suddenly let's
rally around the flag or go on a
children's crusade i mean this has been
true for thousands of years that people
just suddenly
all of a sudden rally really strong
even people who are going to
suffer materially
in every way um and so it's just curious
why that um
why that happens i mean we know that if
there's use of propaganda et cetera et
cetera i mean i think tyrone
probably was trying to use images just
to study why we become a little bit
raptured by i don't know
missiles and things like that but we do
um it's also true that there's a
spectacle component now but anyway i i
just thought it was it's really
interesting that um
a lot of wars they move very quickly and
then they galvanize a sort of a
consensus amongst a
ossified
you know schismogenesis they create a a
choice where people are in one society
and then they're regularly asked
subtly to demonstrate that it's just
it's just an interesting process
anthropologically for sure
but i'm struck by how fast it was i mean
in the recent large-scale tv type wars
of the last 30 years you know it's
always been very fast right and people
who have basically no knowledge or or
real objections to to the far away
people are are are are still there they
they rally to it they learn about it and
then they and they fall in line with the
narrative and and you do you can see how
it might be the case that it's it's a a
power and wealth group that is seeking
reaffirmation because i think leslie
mentioned interpretive labor i mean
there's also sort of maintenance
interpretive maintenance no i mean um
some power centers may wish to
to just reiterate and reaffirm
themselves and you do that through a war
i mean here in rome you know they have
they built huge structures so that
people could parade
after they came back from their wars and
that was a thing of high prestige so i
mean therefore people would generate
incentives to to participate in the
future themselves but anyway i'm really
just struck by the speed with which we
are asked to and often do
sort of rally to up to a war situation
you know
and especially for the people who are
not in the middle of it i mean people
are a little bit remote
and on that i just want to say i mean i
thought the the the ossified schismos
schismogenesis
idea is quite strong in that regard
because that's sort of what's happening
and maybe it's because some
state some society is deciding that it's
there's too much schismogenesis going on
and so they sort of
clamp down and they then they need
another to go
generate a war and and
to basically quite literally keep their
together
i don't know if we have time um stephen
yeah
um i i just wanted um
is it okay
yes
you are actually muted steven i see
thanks okay no problem yeah um i just
wanted to to first i wanted to ask him
and and comment about your your
presentation which i thought is it was
great how to bring together this idea of
production destruction but also the the
graver partner of
money as as the product of this um
violence and war i think this is uh
interesting i have to commend also
senator i think the presentation was
fantastic in the sense that it does
actually what i think we aim to have in
this
in these assemblies you know and i think
it was really
um great but not not only that also i
think michael and vasily i think vasily
actually managed to to pick up from
where he started in two or three months
ago with the idea of invisibility if i'm
not mistaken that was already a topic
that and now that we have seen the movie
uh that makes reference to that um it's
easier to to to understand so i i just
wanted to comment you know that it would
be great to have these references i i
didn't pick stephen the the article you
mentioned but that would be great to
have you know in the in a protocol or in
a
you know after um the matter all these
references so that we can all but i just
wanted to mention that um and and and
again you know michael with bureau
bureaucracy technology been on me i
think that this is really something that
could really work very well i think that
um
maybe tom if we had time might have
something to say about bureaucracy as a
technology and in the work of um
of haroun you know where would we find
that but
it doesn't need to happen here right
what i wanted to say is that we should
initiate a kind of conversation between
camps
and i think that right now with this
example of sinaida and and
and stephen it's very clear that there
is a potential for um
doing this work bilateral
work you know between
uh people that you know are interested
in one or the other but bringing them
together the whole idea of cross
readings and yeah i just wanted to
to to say that i think that it's really
um picking up and working as a
as a forum where this you know might
come up with some interesting products
you know
so thanks to to the people that
presented today and we'll make a
protocol of this and we'll you know like
send it to everybody so that people can
add and
and continue yeah hopefully
thank you um nika is there anything you
want to add
no okay
um
so i
yeah i don't want to keep uh everyone
over time so um
i guess we can conclude this uh assembly
unless there i'm just checking
make sure no one else's hand is up
um so thank you everyone that's coming
it is clear that there are some really i
think interesting
uh connections that um that can be made
i will send out an email later tonight
uh
uh new york time
uh with uh uh a copy of the article that
i alluded to called the bully pulpit
and
um
if i have them handy i'll try to maybe
bring together a couple of the other
um
uh quotes that were also shared uh from
debt and some of his other texts
uh for those less familiar with his work
so thank you everyone uh for coming i i
imagine we will will uh continue
this dialogue
uh electronically by email and and i
look forward to when we're able to
convene again in this kind of virtual
format i think it's been uh very
successful and i especially want to
thank uh zanida for uh for that
wonderful uh presentation there's a lot
there for us to chew on i think
um and i'm so glad that it was recorded
because i i i want to go back to it and
revisit some of those thoughts
so uh uh yeah louis yes there's one
thing that i um i want to mention that
maybe as a um
piece of information that may be
relevant we're aiming to have these
meetings on the last wednesday of every
month
and we will confirm if if it so happens
but that's to keep it in mind you know
so that we can
um all
kind of be
ready
okay great yeah great thank you i wasn't
uh
i didn't know that so that's really good
to know so thank you everyone and look
forward to doing this again take care
bye